Costa Rica is a Central American country, well known for the abolition of its army in 1949 and for its policies in favor of the conservation of ecologically important areas. Investments in Education brought a good development of several higher educational institutions, most of them public and open to new students through an academic selection system. As a consequence, one of the main products of exportation is software (outsourcing, for example). The growing importance of Computational Linguistics (CL) in the last years has made developers to start using CL technologies at work, but unfortunately, often, they are on their own for the lack of academic structures supporting development. In the Table 1 and in the Figure 1 we provide comparative data on Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) for Costa Rica, Brazil, Mexico and the United States both taken from the World Economic Report for 2010 (Dutta and Mia, 2010), in order to help the reader to get a better picture of the context on which CL is growing up in Costa Rica.

This paper aims to bring a general account of CL in Costa Rica. This article is divided into three parts. The section 2 starts with some early CL articles in Costa Rica before covering academic and research infrastructure in the country. The section 4 briefly acknowledges the presence of CL industries in the country. Finally, the section 5 presents some of the current tendencies in research and teaching. The claims in this paper are not exhaustive and they only represent the Author's opinion, who aims to be as objective as possible, but who does not have a complete knowledge on the structures, institutions and companies involved in computational issues in Costa Rica. Therefore, all the topics are raised from personal interviews and experiences.

Since the 90's, CL raised interest in main academic institutions in Costa Rica, particularly in the field of Artificial Intelligence, but this interest was not continued and well structured in time. Some researchers moved to other academic areas in computation or even to industrial research. So, in the Instituto Tecnológico de Costa Rica (TEC) we found the first citations related to CL, mainly on number recognition (Helo and Sell, 1995), knowledge representation (Araya, 1992), connectionism (Vargas, 1991) and unification grammars (Vargas, 1992), these last from a philosophical perspective.

In Costa Rica, we found more than 40 universities and research institutes. But, computational research in the country is principally done in the TEC and in the University of Costa Rica. At this moment, CL is mainly found in the University of Costa Rica as part of the academic structure. This institution, as far as we are concerned, has two structures covering research: schools and research institutions. The former are mainly oriented towards teaching; the latter are exclusively devoted to research. CL teaching is carried out in the School of Philology, Linguistics and Literature and in its associated postgraduate program on Linguistics Research is concentrated in the Instituto de Investigaciones Lingüísticas at the Facultad de Letras. INIL is under the administrative supervision of the Vicerrectoría de Investigación, which approves project financing. All the scientific responsability falls on the members and commissions of the research institutions. At this moment, CL is attached to INIL's program ELEXHICÓS. Where a two year project is under development, with the part time assistance of a researcher. This project aims to create the bases for a hybrid parser.

In the Instituto de Investigaciones en Ingeniería (INII), we found a program on cognition and language. In spite of the name, their research addresses mostly behavioral issues.

There exists the possibility of getting funding from governmental institutions, like CONARE, but they are meager. Nevertheless, it seems there are good options within inter-university collaboration, but this would require a long term coordination and planification.

In Costa Rica, research funding can be improved if real applications are proposed, for example educational and developmental tools. Other areas of interest are indigenous and minority languages, like Bribri and Chinese. In this sense, there are no computational projects officially inscribed in INIL at this moment, but ideas to start projects on this areas are waiting for the next inauguration of the Natural Language Processing Laboratory in the University of Costa Rica, so there are no papers to cite for the moment. Nevertheless, any inquiry on indigenous languages can be addressed to Prof. Carla Jara Murillo, director of the Linguistic Department.

In the 90's the project Estudios de Lexicografía Hispano-Costarricense (ELEXHICÓS) at the School of Philology, Linguistics and Literature of the University of Costa Rica was born as an initiative to do lexicographical research on contemporary Costarican Spanish and to publish dictionaries based on modern scientific methods and oriented towards different publics and usages.

Lexicographical studies appeal to large corpora in order to document accurate word values and guarantee their usefulness. The need of computational resources was felt from the beginning of ELEXHICÓS. The Murillo and Sánchez (1993) on lexical and syntactic maturity (language acquisition) is a good example of a research where this need of language computational tools is present. However, statistical dictionaries (Morales, 2009) can only be done by electronic means because of the huge calculations involved. For a long time, ELEXHICÓS counted on the limited, but important, support of the Centro de Informática (Center of Informatics) of the University of Costa Rica, but the need of developing its own resources and technologies imposed itself.

In 2002 the School of Philology, Linguistics and Literature of the University of Costa Rica opened the course Tecnología y Producción Textual, where text processing technologies like LATEX, XML, HTML, CSS and Perl are taught for applications in the Humanities field. Some interesting proof-of-concept projects have been proposed as part of the course activities (Arroyo Molina, 2009; Enciso Bahler, 2008; Fuentes Vargas, 2008). As an initiative of ELEXHICÓS and the School of Philology, Linguistics and Literature in order to develop CL, the University of Costa Rica approved a grant for a Ph.D. on Computational Linguistics, which was fulfilled at the Laboratoire d'Analyse et de Technologie du Langage of the University of Geneva.