In natural language processing, to deal with similarities/differences between verbs is essential not only for paraphrase but also textual entailment and QA system which are expected to extract more valuable facts from massively large texts such as the Web. For example, in the QA system, assuming that the body text says "He lent her a bicycle", the answer of the question "He gave her a bicycle?" should be "No", however the answer of "She rented the bicycle?" should be "Yes". Thus constructing database of verb similarities/differences enables us to deal with detailed paraphrase/nonparaphrase relations in NLP.

From the view of the current language resource, how the shared/different meanings of "He lent her a bicycle" and "He gave her a bicycle" can be described? The shared meaning of lend and give in the above sentences is that they are categorized to Giving Verbs, as in Levin's English Verb Classes and Alternations (EVCA) (Levin, 1993), while the different meaning will be that lend does not imply ownership of the theme, i.e., a bicycle. One of the problematic issues with describing shared meaning among verbs is that semantic classes such as Giving Verbs should be dependent on the granularity of meanings we assumed. For example, the meaning of lend and give in the above sentences is not categorized into the same Frame in FrameNet (Baker et al., 1998). The reason for this different categorization can be considered to be that the granularity of the semantic class of Giving Verbs is larger than that of the Giving Frame in FrameNet. From the view of natural language processing, especially dealing the with propositional meaning of verbs, all of the above classes, i.e., the wider class of Giving Verbs containing lend and give as well as the narrower class of Giving Frame containing give and donate, are needed. Therefore, in this work, in order to describe verb meanings with several granularities of semantic classes, a thesaurus form is adopted for our verb dictionary.

Based on the background, this paper presents a thesaurus of predicate-argument structure for verbs on the basis of a lexical decompositional framework such as Lexical Conceptual Structure (Jackendoff, 1990); thus our proposed thesaurus can deal with argument structure level alternations such as causative, transitive/intransitive, stative. Besides, taking a thesaurus form enables us to deal with shared/differenciate meaning of verbs with consistency, e.g., a verb class node of "lend" and "rent" can be described in the detailed layer of the node "give".

We constructed this thesaurus on Japanese verbs and the current status of the verb thesaurus is this: we have analyzed 7,473 verb meanings (4,425 verbs) and organized the semantic classes in a five-layer thesaurus with 71 semantic roles types. Below, we describe background issues, basic design issues, what kind of problems remain, limitations and perspectives of applications.

From the view of previous lexical databases In English, several well-considered lexical databases are available, e.g., EVCA, Dorr's LCS (Dorr, 1997), FrameNet, WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998), VerbNet (Kipper-Schuler, 2005) and PropBank (Palmer et al., 2005). Besides there is the research project (Pustejovsky and Meyers, 2005) to find general descriptional framework of predicate argument structure by merging several lexical databases such as PropBank, NomBank, TimeBank and PennDiscouse Treebank.

Our approach corresponds partly to each lexical database, (i.e., FrameNet's Frame and FrameElements correspond to our verb class and semantic role labels, and the way to organize verb similarity classes with thesaurus corresponds with WordNet's synset), but is not exactly the same; namely, there is no lexical database describing several granularities of semantic classes between verbs with arguments. Of course, since the above English lexical databases have links with each other, it is possible to produce a verb dictionary with several granularities of semantic classes with arguments. However, the basic categories of classifying verbs would be little different due to the different background theory of each English lexical database; it must be not easy to add another level of semantic granularity with keeping consistency for all the lexical databases; thus, thesaurus form is needed to be a core form for describing verb meanings.

In previous studies, several Japanese lexicons were published: IPAL (IPA, 1986) focuses on morpho-syntactic classes but IPAL is small. EDR (Jap, 1995) consists of a large-scale lexicon and corpus (See Section 3.4). EDR is a well-considered and wide coverage dictionary focusing on translation between Japanese and English, but EDR's semantic classes were not designed with linguistically-motivated lexical relations between verbs, e.g., alternations, causative, transitive, and detransitive relations between verbs. We believe these relations must be key for dealing with paraphrase in NLP.

Recently Japanese FrameNet (Ohara et al., 2006) and Japanese WordNet (Bond et al., 2008) are proposed. Japanese FrameNet currently published only less than 100 verbs. Besides Japanese WordNet contains 87000 words and 46000 synsets, however, there are three major difficulty of dealing with paraphrase relations between verbs: (1) there is no argument information; (2) existing many similar synsets force us to solve fine disambiguation between verbs when we map a verb in a sentence to WordNet; (3) the basic verbs of Japanese (i.e., highly ambiguous verbs) are wrongly assigned to unrelated synsets because they are constructed by translation from English to Japanese.

The proposed thesaurus of predicate-argument structure can deal with several levels of verb classes on the basis of granularity of defined verb meaning. In the thesaurus we incorporate LCSbased semantic description for each verb class that can provide several argument structure such as construction grammar (Goldberg, 1995). This must be high advantage to describe the different factors from the view of not only syntactic functions but also internal semantic relations. Thus this characteristics of the proposed thesaurus can be powerful framework for calculating similarity and difference between verb senses. In the following sections we explain the total design of thesaurus and the details.

The proposed thesaurus consists of hierarchy of verb classes we assumed. A verb class, which is a conceptual class, has verbs with a shared meaning. A parent verb class includes concepts of subordinate verb class; thus a subordinate verb class is a concretization of the parent verb class. A verb class has a semantic description that is a kind of semantic skeleton inspired from lexical conceptual structure (Jackendoff, 1990; Kageyama, 1996; Dorr, 1997). Thus a semantic description in a verb class describes core semantic relations between arguments and shadow arguments of a shared meaning of the verb class. Since verb can be polysemous, each verb sense is designated with example sentences. Verb senses with a shared meaning are assigned to a verb class. Every example sentence is analyzed into their arguments and semantic role types; and then their arguments are linked to variables in semantic description of verb class. This indicates that one semantic description in a verb class can provide several argument structure on the basis of syntactic structure. This architecture is related to construction grammar.