For the importance of idioms in Chinese language and culture, an idiom bank with about 6,790 entries were included in the most influential Chinese language knowledge base - the Grammatical Knowledge base of Contemporary Chinese (GKB) completed by the Institute of Computational Linguistics at Peking University (ICL), which has been working on language resources for over 20 years and building many knowledge bases on Chinese language. Based on that, the Chinese Idiom Knowledge Base (CIKB) had been constructed from the year 2004 to 2009 and collects more than 38,000 idioms with more semantic and pragmatic properties added.

Basically the properties of each entry in CIKB can be classified into four categories: lexical, semantic, syntactic and pragmatic, each of which also includes several fields in its container  -- the SQL database. Table 1 shows the details about the fields.

There are three fields of translation as we can see in Table 1. In spite of the fact that a literal translation of an idiom will not reflect its metaphorical meaning generally, it will still be of value to those who expect to get familiar with the constituent characters and may want to connect its literal meaning with its metaphorical meaning, especially for those learners of Chinese as a foreign language.

The idioms are classified into three grades in terms of appearance in texts and complexity of annotation. The most commonly used 3,000 idioms serve as the core idioms based on the statistics obtained from the corpus of People's Daily (the year of  1998), a newspaper that has the largest circulation in China. Another 11,000 idioms are selected into a category named as basic idioms (fully annotated in every field) and the total 38,117 forms the whole knowledge base. Its hierarchical structure can be seen in Figure 1.

The syntactic category aims at NLP tasks like automatic identification or machine translation. Compared with English idioms, the identification of Chinese idioms is not so difficult for its fossilized structure, i.e. continuity in a text. To build a lexicon like CIKB will complete the task successfully. As for machine translation, however, it is completely another story because the compositional complexity of Chinese idioms enables them to function as different syntactic constituents with variable part-of-speech (POS). We classify them into nine categories according to its compositional relations of the morphemes and into seven categories according to its syntactic functions that they may serve in a sentence, as is shown in Table 2.

Upon the completion of CIKB, a few research projects have been conducted to investigate possible applications. Li (2006) investigates the frequency and formation of idiom usage in People's Daily and Wang (2010) selects 1,000 popular idioms from CIKB to compile a book for Chinese learners. On the basis of CIKB, we also made a couple of attempts on the automatic classification of idioms to identify the token-level characteristics of an idiom. This paper will focus on the emotion classification of idioms with machine learning method and the work will be elaborated in section 4. Here we define the emotion types as "appreciative (A)", "derogatory (D)" and "neutral (N)".

There has not been much work on the construction of an idiom corpus or an idiom knowledge base. With this respect, Birke and Sarkar (2006) and Fellbaum (2007) are exceptions. Birke and Sarkar (2006) constructed a corpus of English idiomatic expressions with automatic method. They selected 50 expressions and collected about 6,600 examples. They call the corpus TroFi Example Base, which is available on the Web.

As far as idiom identification is concerned, the work is classified into two kinds: one is for idiom types and the other is for idiom tokens. With the former, phrases that can be interpreted as idioms are found in text corpora, typically for lexicographers to compile idiom dictionaries. Previous studies have mostly focused on the idiom type identification (Lin, 1999; Baldwin et al., 2003; Shudo et al., 2004). However, there has been a growing interest in idiom token identification recently (Katz and Giesbrecht, 2006; Hashimoto et al., 2006; Cook et al., 2007). Our work elaborated in section 4 is also an attempt in this regard.

Despite the recent enthusiasm for multiword expressions, the idiom token identification is in an early stage of its development. Given that many language teaching and learning tasks like TCFL have been developed as a result of the availability of language resources, idiom token identification should also be developed when adequate idiom resources are provided. To this end, we have constructed the CIKB and hope to find applications of value, for example, emotion classification, event classification and text analysis based on idiom usage and its context.

According to the granularity of text, emotion analysis of texts can be divided into three levels: text (Pang et al., 2002; Cui et al., 2006), sentence (Pang et al., 2004), word (Hatzivassiloglou et al., 1997; Wiebe 2000). According to the sources of emotion prediction, classification methods can be divided into knowledge based methods and machine learning based methods. The former uses lexicons or knowledge bases to build a new lexicon that contains emotion words. WordNet is often used to compute the emotion prediction of words (Hatzivassiloglou et al., 1997; Andrea 2005). Meanwhile, incorporating knowledge into the machine learning architecture as features is a popular trend and untagged copra are often used to do emotion classification research (Turney et al., 2002; Akkaya et al., 2009).

In this paper, we focus on the emotion prediction of idioms conducted by machine learning method. To do this, we aim to investigate how the compositional constituents of an idiom affect its emotion orientation from the token level, especially for multi-word expressions with so obvious an exaggerative and descriptive nature like idioms. From CIKB, 20,000 idioms are selected as the training corpus and 3,000 idioms as the test corpus. The detailed distribution of idioms in each emotion group is shown in Table 3. We can see that neutral has the largest number of idioms, accounting for 41.08% and 36.67% in the training and test corpus respectively, but there is not a big difference between groups.