Chen and Ji (2009a) applied normalized spectral algorithm to conduct event coreference resolution: partitioning a set of mentions into events. An event is a specific occurrence involving participants. An event mention is a textual reference to an event which includes a distinguished trigger (the word that most clearly expresses that an event occurs) and involving arguments (entities/temporal expressions that play certain roles in the event). A graph is similarly constructed as in entity coreference resolution except that it involves quite different feature engineering (most features are related with event trigger and arguments). The graph clustering approach yields competitive results by comparing with an agglomerative clustering algorithm proposed in (Chen et al., 2009b), unfortunately, a scientific comparison among the algorithms remains unexplored.

Word clustering is a problem defined as clustering a set of words (e.g., nouns, verbs) into groups so that similar words are in the same cluster. Word clustering is a major technique that can benefit many NLP tasks, e.g., thesaurus construction, text classification, and word sense disambiguation. Word clustering can be solved by following a two-step procedure: (1) classification step by representing each word as a feature vector and computing the similarity of two words; (2) clustering step which applies some clustering algorithm, e.g., single-link clustering, complete-link clustering, average-link clustering, such that similar words are grouped together.

Ichioka and Fukumoto (2008) applied similar approach as Matsuo et al. (2006) for Japanese Onomatopoetic word clustering, and showed that the approach outperforms k-means clustering by 16.2%.

Word sense disambiguation is the problem of identifying which sense of a word (meaning) is conveyed in the context of a sentence, when the word is polysemic. In contrast to supervised WSD which relies on pre-defined list of senses from dictionaries, unsupervised WSD induces word senses directly from the corpus. Among those unsupervised WSD algorithms, graph-based clustering algorithms have been found competitive with supervised methods, and in many cases outperform most vector-based clustering methods.

Dorow and Widdows (2003) built a co-occurrence graph in which each node represents a noun and two nodes have an edge between them if they co-occur more than a given threshold. They then applied Markov Clustering algorithm (MCL) which is surveyed in section 2.5, but cleverly circumvent the problem of choosing the right parameters. Their algorithm not only recognizes senses of polysemic words, but also provides high-level readable cluster name for each sense. Unfortunately, they neither discussed further how to identify the sense of a word in a given context, nor compared their algorithm with other algorithms by conducting experiments.

Véronis (2004) proposed a graph based model named HyperLex based on the small-world properties of co-occurrence graphs. Detecting the different senses (uses) of a word reduces to isolating the high-density components (hubs) in the co-occurrence graph. Those hubs are then used to perform WSD. To obtain the hubs, HyperLex finds the vertex with highest relative frequency in the graph at each iteration and if it meets some criteria, it is selected as a hub. Agirre (2007) proposed another method based on PageRank for finding hubs. HyperLex can detect low-frequency senses (as low as 1%) and most importantly, it offers an excellent precision (97% compared to 73% for baseline). Agirre (2007) further conducted extensive experiments by comparing the two graph based models (HyperLex and PageRank) with other supervised and non-supervised graph methods and concluded that graph based methods perform close to supervised systems in the lexical sample task and yield the second-best WSD systems for the Senseval-3 all-words task.

In this survey, we organize the sparse related literature of graph clustering into a structured presentation and summarize the topic as a five part story, namely, hypothesis, modeling, measure, algorithm, and evaluation. The hypothesis serves as a basis for the whole graph clustering methodology, quality measures and graph clustering algorithms construct the backbone of the methodology, modeling acts as the interface between the real application and the methodology, and evaluation deals with utility. We also survey several typical NLP problems, in which graph-based clustering approaches have been successfully applied.

We have the following final comments on the strengths and weaknesses of graph clustering approaches:
(1) Graph is an elegant data structure that can model many real applications with solid mathematical foundations including spectral theory, Markov stochastic process.
(2) Unlike many other clustering algorithms which act greedily towards the final clustering and thus may miss the optimal clustering, graph clustering transforms the clustering problem into optimizing some quality measure. Unfortunately, those optimization problems are NP-Hard, thus, all proposed graph clustering algorithms only approximately yield "optimal" clustering.
(3) Graph clustering algorithms have been criticized for low speed when working on large scale graph (with millions of vertices). This may not be true since new graph clustering algorithms have been proposed, e.g., the multilevel graph clustering algorithm (Karypis and Kumar, 1999) can partition a graph with one million vertices into 256 clusters in a few seconds on current generation workstations and PCs. Nevertheless, scalability problem of graph clustering algorithm still needs to be explored which is becoming more important in social network study.

We envision that graph clustering methods can lead to promising solutions in the following emerging NLP problems:
(1) Detection of new entity types, relation types and event types (IE area). For example, the eight event types defined in the ACE program may not be enough for wider usage and more event types can be induced by graph clustering on verbs.
(2) Web people search (IR area). The main issue in web people search is the ambiguity of the person name. Thus by extracting attributes (e.g., attended schools, spouse, children, friends) from returned web pages, constructing person graphs (involving those attributes) and applying graph clustering, we are optimistic to achieve a better person search engine.